

===== PAGE 1 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
Voltage Measurement Safety Information
When performing live voltage measurements, you must do the following:
 Verify the controls are in the off position so that the appliance does not start when energized.
 Allow enough space to perform the voltage measurements without obstructions.
 Keep other people a safe distance away from the appliance to prevent potential injury.
 Always use the proper testing equipment.
 After voltage measurements, always disconnect power before servicing.
IMPORTANT: Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Sensitive Electronics
ESD problems are present everywhere. Most people begin to feel an ESD discharge at
approximately 3000V. It takes as little as 10V to destroy, damage, or weaken the main control
assembly. The new main control assembly may appear to work well after repair is finished,
but a malfunction may occur at a later date due to ESD stress.
 Use an anti-static wrist strap. Connect wrist strap to green ground connection point or
unpainted metal in the appliance
-OR-
Touch your finger repeatedly to a green ground connection point or unpainted metal
in the appliance.
 Before removing the part from its package, touch the anti-static bag to a green ground
connection point or unpainted metal in the appliance.
 Avoid touching electronic parts or terminal contacts; handle electronic control assembly
by edges only.
 When repackaging main control assembly in anti-static bag, observe above instructions.
IMPORTANT SAFETY NOTICE — “For Technicians only”
This service data sheet is intended for use by persons having electrical, electronic, and
mechanical experience and knowledge at a level generally considered acceptable in the
appliance repair trade. Any attempt to repair a major appliance may result in personal injury
and property damage. The manufacturer or seller cannot be responsible, nor assume any
liability for injury or damage of any kind arising from the use of this data sheet.
Contents
Whirlpool Control Panel ........................................2 Troubleshooting Guide ..........................................8
Diagnostic Guide ..................................................3 Troubleshooting Tests...........................................9
Service Diagnostics .............................................3 Strip Circuits ......................................................22
Error Diagnostic ...................................................4 Dryer Disassembly Instructions ..........................23
Component Activation ..........................................5 Wiring Diagrams ..........................................25, 26
System Info .........................................................5 Component Locations ........................................27
Fault/Error Codes .................................................7 Specifications ....................................................27
DPAOR NTO NTO R. EWM1O0V4E1 0O4R6 5DAESTROY PAGE 1
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 2 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
PAGE 2 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
)sledom
neewteb
yrav
yam
secnaraeppa
dna
serutaef(
LENAP
LORTNOC
LOOPLRIHW
hcae
ffo
snrut
bonk
rotceles
elcyc
eht
gnitatoR
dna
serutaeF(
.rotacidni
elcyc
gnidnopserroc
.)sledom
neewteb
yrav
secnaraeppa
neercs
eht
dnuora
snottub
eht
gnisserp
–
neercS
DCL
roloC
ot
kcalb
morf
snoitatneserper
neercs-no
rieht
segnahc
dna
,scitsongaiD
,sedoC
rorrE
,tseT
tnenopmoC
IU
.neerg
:nottub
”ESUAP/TRATS“
.suneM
ecivreS
aiv
dessecca
era
noitamrofnI
metsyS
ecno
sserp
:nottub
”REWOP“
.rotacidni
ffo
nrut
ot
ecno
sserp
.rotacidni
ffo
nrut
ot
.tset
eunitnoc
ro
nigeB
snottub
dednemmoceR
)dr3
,dn2
,ts1(
ecno
sserp
:nottub
”tsooBocE“
:nottub
”ecudeR
citatS“
.edoM
citsongaiD
ssecca
ot
rotacidni
ffo
nrut
ot
rotacidni
ffo
nrut
ot
ecno
sserp
.)sledom
lla
no
elbaliava
ton(
.)sledom
lla
no
elbaliava
ton(
erom
ro
eno
sserp
:snottub
”)
(
&
kcaB“
.edoM
citsongaiD
tixe
ot
semit
tseT
tnenopmoC
IU
- 1
erugiF
d r
3
d
n
2
t s
1
t
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 3 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
DIAGNOSTIC GUIDE
ACTIVATING SERVICE DIAGNOSTICS
Before servicing, check the following:
1. Be sure the dryer is in standby mode
 Make sure there is power at the wall outlet. (plugged in with all indicators off).
 Has a household fuse blown or circuit breaker 2. Select any three buttons (except POWER)
tripped? Was a regular fuse used? Inform and follow the steps below, using the same
customer that a time-delay fuse is required. buttons. Remember the buttons and the order
that the buttons were pressed. (Recommended
 Is dryer vent properly installed and clear
button selections shown in figure 1):
of lint or obstructions?
Within 8 seconds,
 All tests/checks should be made with a
VOM (volt-ohm-milliammeter) or DVM • Press and Release the 1st selected button,
(digital-voltmeter) having a sensitivity of • Press and Release the 2nd selected button,
20,000 Ω per volt DC or greater. • Press and Release the 3rd selected button;
 Resistance checks must be made with • R epeat this 3 button sequence 2 more times.
dryer unplugged or power disconnected. 3. If the key sequence was entered successfully,
the language selection screen is displayed.
 IMPORTANT: Avoid using large
diameter probes when checking harness 4. Select the desired language—choices are:
connectors as the probes may damage English, French, and Spanish.
the connectors upon insertion. 5. The following screen warns that this area is
for service technicians only.
 Check all harnesses and connections before
replacing components. Look for connectors • Pressing “Exit” returns to original screen.
not fully seated, broken or loose wires and • P ressing “Enter” continues to DIAGNOSTIC
terminals, pin insertion, or wires not pressed into HOME screen.
connectors far enough to engage metal barbs. NOTE: Service Diagnostics will time out and
 A potential cause of a control not return to standby after 5 minutes of user inactivity.
functioning is corrosion or contamination on
EXITING SERVICE DIAGNOSTICS
connections. Use an ohmmeter to check for
continuity across suspected connections.
Use either of the two methods below to exit
Service Diagnostics.
SERVICE DIAGNOSTICS
• Select “Exit Diagnostics” on the
These tests allow factory or service personnel Diagnostics Home Screen.
to test and verify all inputs to the machine control • Press the “Back” button one or more times,
electronics. You may want to do a quick and depending on location in Service Diagnostics.
overall checkup of the dryer with these tests
before going to specific troubleshooting tests. DIAGNOSTICS HOME SCREEN
LCD Navigation (See figure 2)
The menu is displayed as a list of When an invalid item is selected, an
selectable items on separate rows. invalid key-press beep is generated.
Each menu item may contain several
lines.
Pressing the corresponding buttons
As user navigates over elements with for the arrows moves highlight up and
additional information, the highlight down. Pressing the corresponding
extends the length of the screen. All button for OK selects the highlighted
non-selectable items will display a option.
short gray highlight preceding the
item.
The navigation buttons have press and
Pressing the Left or Back button hold functionality. If the button is held
returns user to previous screen. for longer than 1 second, the navigation
will automatically move one row
The last item after System Info is every 0.5 seconds.
“Exit Diagnostics”.
Figure 2 - LCD Navigation These buttons are used for navigation and selection.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 3
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 4 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
DIAGNOSTICS HOME SCREEN • Error History – Displays the last four
saved fault/error codes (if no saved error
The “Diagnostics Home” screen (see figure
exists, this item is NOT shown). Provides
2, page 3) displays the following service
error code and description, time of error,
diagnostic items:
and cycle information when error occurred
• Error Diagnostic – Access Error Codes,
(see figure 4).
Error History, Quick Diagnostic Test, and
Clear All Errors
• Component Activation – Activation and
functional testing of system components
and sensors (page 5)
• System Info – Displays model #, serial
#, hardware info, and other system
variables (page 5)
• Exit Diagnostics – Exits Service
Diagnostics and returns to standby mode
Figure 4 - Error History Screen
ERROR DIAGNOSTIC
• Quick Diagnostic Test – Performs a quick
Access Error Codes, Error History, system level test of the dryer and displays
Quick Diagnostics, and Clear All Errors error results in a dialog box (see figure 5).
Tests drum motor and heater(s), exhaust
NOTE: If no saved error exists, the only menu
and inlet thermistors, air flow (AF), and
item displayed is “Quick Diagnosic Test”.
low line voltage (L2). Test stops on first
error detected. Use this test to check for
errors and verify repairs. NOTE: Door
must be closed to perform test.
Figure 3 - Error Diagnostic Screen
• Error Codes – Displays most recent saved
fault/error code (if no saved error exists,
this item is NOT shown). Refer to Fault/
Figure 5 - Quick Diagnostic Test
Error Code chart on page 7.
• Clear All Errors – Clears all stored fault/
error codes (if no saved error exists,
this item is NOT shown). NOTE: Once
the errors are cleared, they cannot be
recovered again.
PAGE 4 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 5 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
COMPONENT ACTIVATION • UI Component Test – Upon activation,
all LEDs are turned on. Pressing each
Activation and functional testing of system
button turns off its LED, rotating the cycle
components and sensors (see Figure 6).
selector knob turns off each LED, and
pressing the ATM buttons changes their
on-screen representations from black to
green (see figure 8). Press and hold the
right-most navigation key to return to
previous screen.
 If indicators do not turn off and beep after
pressing buttons and rotating the cycle
selector, go to TEST #6: Buttons
& Indicators, page 19.
Figure 6 - Component Activation Menu
• Component Activation – When a
component is selected from the
Component Activation menu (see Figure
6), a screen appears providing component
information, and if available, attributes
related to the component (see figure
7). Many of the components listed can
be turned on and off. By default, the
component is off. (See chart on page 6.)
Figure 8 - UI Component Test
SYSTEM INFO
Displays model and serial number, hardware
information, and other system variables (if
provided).
NOTE: Missing system information does not
indicate a problem. The system information
screens are common across various
platforms; therefore, information provided on
Figure 7 - Component Screen one dryer may not be available on another. If
uncertain about the information, check with
technical support.
NOTE: All non-selectable items will display a
short gray highlight preceding the selection;
however, as the highlight of the screen moves
over items with more information, it displays
regular background length. (see Figures 9 & 10.)
Non-selectable items
Items with more info.
Figure 9 - System Information Screen Figure 10 - Hardware Information Details
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 5
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 6 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
Component Activation Chart
COMPONENT ACTIVATION CHART
Output On/Off Details
UI Component Test N/A Upon activation, all LEDs are turned on. Pressing each button turns off
its LED. Rotating the cycle selector knob turns off each LED. Pressing
the ATM buttons changes their on-screen representations from black
to green.
Motor YES Status (On/Off) NOTE: Door must be closed.
If the motor does not turn on, go to TEST #3, page 12.
Heater1 (Electric)/ Heat On (Gas) YES Status (On/Off) NOTE: Door must be closed.
Attributes: Exhaust & Inlet Thermistor Reading.
When you turn on heat, the motor is turned on as well. If temp is
too high, system will automatically turn off heat.
• If the motor does not turn on, go to TEST #3, page 12.
• If no heat is detected, go to TEST #4, page 13.
Heater2 (Electric Only) YES Status (On/Off) NOTE: Door must be closed.
Attributes: Exhaust & Inlet Thermistor Reading.
When you turn on heat, the motor is turned on as well. If temp is
too high, system will automatically turn off heat.
• If the motor does not turn on, go to TEST #3, page 12.
• If no heat is detected, go to TEST #4, page 13.
Heater 1 & 2 (Electric Only) YES Status (On/Off) NOTE: Door must be closed.
Attributes: Exhaust & Inlet Thermistor Reading.
When you turn on heat, the motor is turned on as well. If temp is
too high, system will automatically turn off heat.
• If the motor does not turn on, go to TEST #3, page 12.
• If no heat is detected, go to TEST #4, page 13.
Inlet Thermistor N/A Status (F°, C°, and Resistance)
If inlet thermistor reading is out of range, go to TEST #4a, page 16.
Exhaust Thermistor N/A Status (F°, C°, and Resistance)
If exhaust thermistor reading is out of range, go to TEST #4a, page 16.
Moisture Sensor N/A Status (Open/Closed)
• Place finger over both sensor strips. If sensor status does not change,
go to TEST #5, page 18.
Door Status N/A Status (Open/Closed)
• If opening the door does not change status, go to TEST #7, page 20.
CCU Line Voltage 1 N/A Status (L1 Voltage Measurement) NOTE: Door must be closed.
When measuring L1, the motor and heater are activated.
• If L1 is absent, go to TEST #1, page 9.
CCU Line Voltage 2 (Electric Only) N/A Status (L2 Voltage Measurement) NOTE: Door must be closed.
When measuring L2, the motor and heater are activated.
• If L2 is absent, go to TEST #1, page 9.
Air Flow N/A Status (Normal/Restricted) NOTE: Door must be closed.
• If air flow does not turn on, go to TEST #4, page 13.
Drum Light YES Status (On/Off)
• If drum light does not turn on, go to TEST #1, page 9.
Buzzer YES Status (On/Off)
• If buzzer does not sound, go to TEST #6, page 19.
Myst Valve YES Status (On/Off) After being turned on, the myst valve automatically
deactivates after 30 seconds if not turned off.
• If myst valve does not turn on, go to TEST #9, page 21.
PAGE 6 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 7 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
Fault/Error Code Chart
The fault codes below may be indicated under various conditions and can be accessed through Service Diagnostic Mode.
CODE DESCRIPTION EXPLANATION AND RECOMMENDED PROCEDURE
CUSTOMER FAULT/ERROR CODES
Indicates that a power failure occurred while the dryer was running. Press START to continue the
Power Failure / Interruption
cycle, or press POWER to clear the display.
Indicates low air flow that may affect dryer performance.
Restricted Air Flow Confirm that airflow system is not blocked. Check lint screen, exhaust duct, exhaust fan.
• Refer to Fault/Error Code “F4E3” below for recommended procedure.
Indicates low L2 voltage (less than 30 V) is detected at the CCU.
Low Line Voltage
• Refer to Fault/Error Code “F4E4” below for recommended procedure.
SERVICE FAULT/ERROR CODES
Indicates a CCU problem.
F1E1 Cycle Control Unit (CCU) Problem • Verify all connections to and from the CCU.
• See TEST #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
Indicates a stuck button (depressed for over 20 seconds) or UI mismatch. This fault code
F2E1 User Interface (UI) Problem (stuck button)
will ONLY appear in the service diagnostic mode. See TEST #6: Buttons and Indicators, page 19.
Appears if UI cannot read EEPROM software from UI.
F2E2 User Interface Software Error 1 • Verify all connections between CCU and UI.
• Replace the UI.
Appears if main control EEPROM is not programmed correctly.
F2E3 User Interface Software Error 2
• Replace the UI.
Indicates that the exhaust thermistor is open. Temperature drops below 18° F (> 50k ohms).
F3E1 Exhaust Thermistor Open
See TEST #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
Indicates that the exhaust thermistor has shorted. Temperature above 250° F (< 500 ohms).
F3E2 Exhaust Thermistor Shorted
See TEST #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
Indicates that the Inlet Thermistor is open. Temperature drops below 18° F (>245k ohms).
F3E3 Inlet Thermistor Open
See TEST #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
Indicates that the Inlet Thermistor is shorted. Temperature above 391° F (< 328 ohms).
F3E4 Inlet Thermistor Shorted
See TEST #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
Indicates that the Inlet and Exhaust Thermistor are open. Will occur if the P14 connector is not
F3E5 Inlet and Exhaust Thermistor Open
plugged into the CCU.
Indicates that the moisture sensor strip is open. This fault code will ONLY appear in the service
F3E6 Moisture Sensor Open
diagnostic mode. See TEST #5: Moisture Sensor, page 18.
Indicates that the moisture sensor strip has shorted. This fault code will ONLY appear in the service
F3E7 Moisture Sensor Shorted
diagnostic mode. See TEST #5: Moisture Sensor, page 18.
Indicates no voltage detected at the heater relay. This fault code will ONLY appear in the service
diagnostic mode.
F4E1 Heater Relay or Connector Problem
• Unplug dryer or disconnect power and check that the wires are plugged into the heater element(s)
and the relay(s) on the CCU.
Indicates low air flow that may affect dryer performance.
F4E3 Restricted Air Flow • Confirm that airflow system is not blocked, check lint screen, exhaust duct, exhaust fan.
• See TEST #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
L2 indicates low L2 voltage (less than 30 V) is detected at the CCU.
• Check to see if a household fuse has blown or a circuit breaker has tripped.
F4E4 L2 Line Voltage Error • Confirm the power cord is properly installed and plugged into the power outlet.
• Check the relay connections on the CCU.
• Gas Models Only: Check the P14 connection on the CCU. (Harness Loopback on pins 4 & 5)
Communication between the CCU and UI has not been detected.
• Check the harnres continuity and connections between the CCU and UI.
F6E1 Communication Error UI to CCU
• Check AC and DC supplies. See TEST #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
F6E2 Communication Error CCU to UI
• Replace the User Interface.
• Replace the CCU.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 7
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 8 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
Some tests will require accessing components (see page 27).
PROBLEM POSSIBLE CAUSE CHECKS & TESTS
WILL NOT POWER UP No power to dryer. Check power at outlet, check circuit breaker,
- No operation fuses, or junction box connections.
- No keypad response Connection problem between AC plug and dryer. See Test #2: Supply Connections, page 10.
- No LEDs or display
Connection problem between CCU and UI. Check connections and continuity between
CCU and UI.
Power supplies not present at machine electronics. See Test #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
User Interface problem. See Test #6: Buttons & Indicators, page 19.
WILL NOT START CYCLE Door not fully closed or striking the door latch. Be sure the door is completely closed,
(No response when Start button then press and hold the START button.
is pressed.) Door Switch problem. See Test #7: Door Switch, page 20.
Drive Belt / Belt Switch problem. See Test #3: Motor Circuit, page 12.
Thermal Fuse / Motor problem. See Test #3: Motor Circuit, page 12.
User Interface problem. See Test #6: Buttons & Indicators, page 19.
CCU problem. See Test #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
WILL NOT SHUT OFF Poor airflow. Check lint screen and exhaust vent. Clean
WHEN EXPECTED if necessary.
Check the Pause/Cancel button. Perform UI Component Test under
Component Activation.
Moisture Sensor problem. See Test #5: Moisture Sensor, page 18.
Thermistor problem. See Test #4a: Thermistors, page 16.
User Interface problem. See Test #6: Buttons & Indicators, page 19.
CCU problem. See Test #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
CONSOLE WON’T ACCEPT User selects invalid option. Refer customer to “Use and Care Guide”.
SELECTIONS User Interface problem. See Test #6: Buttons & Indicators, page 19.
DRUM WILL NOT SPIN Drive Belt / Belt Switch problem. See Test #3: Motor Circuit, page 12.
Thermal Fuse (elect. Only). See Test #4b: Thermal Fuse, page 17.
Door switch problem. See Test #7: Door Switch, page 20.
Motor problem. See Test #3: Motor Circuit, page 12.
CCU problem. See Test #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
WILL NOT HEAT Check installation. Verify proper dryer installation.
Check for L1 and L2. Perform CCU, L1, and L2 tests in Service
Diagnostics.
Heater system malfunction or open heater coil. See Test #4: Heat System, page 13.
CCU problem. See Test #1: CCU Power Check, page 9.
HEATS IN AIR CYCLE Heater coil shorted. See Test #4: Heat System, page 13.
Heater relay shorted. See Test #4: Heat System, page 13.
Heater system problem. See Test #4: Heat System, page 13.
SHUTS OFF BEFORE CLOTHES Dryness setting for auto cycles. Increase drying times for one or more
ARE DRY auto cycles.
Lint screen full. Clean if necessary. Refer customer
to “Use and Care Guide”.
Heater vent clogged. Clean if necessary. Refer customer
to “Use and Care Guide”.
Moisture Sensor problem. See Test #5: Moisture Sensor, page 18.
Adjust Customer Focused Dryness Level. See Test #5a: Adjusting Customer-
Focused Dryness Level, page 19.
WATER VALVE NOT DISPENSING Steam cycle not selected. Refer customer to “Use and Care Guide”.
(Water valve is activated intermittently No water to valve. Verify water supply is turned on.
during the steam cycle.) No water from valve. See Test #9: Myst Valve, page 21.
PAGE 8 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 9 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
TROUBLESHOOTING TESTS 5. CCU VAC – With voltmeter set to AC,
connect black probe to CCU P8-3 (N) and
IMPORTANT: The following procedures
red probe to P9-2 (L1). (See Figure 11.)
may require the use of needle probes
to measure voltage. Failure to use needle  If 120VAC is present, go to step 6.
probes will damage the connectors.  If 120VAC is not present, perform TEST
#2: Supply Connections, page 10.
TEST #1: CCU Power Check
6. CCU +5VDC – With voltmeter set to DC,
This test is used to determine if power is
connect black probe to CCU P2-3 (ground)
present at the machine control electronics.
and red probe to P2-1 (+5V DC).
This test assumes that proper voltage is
present at the outlet.  If +5VDC is present, go to step 9.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.  If +5VDC is not present, go to step 7.
2. Check for appropriate line voltages at the 7. Unplug dryer or disconnect power. Unplug
outlet: 240VAC (electric 2-phase), 208VAC P14 from the CCU. Plug in dryer or reconnect
(electric 3-phase), or 120VAC (gas). power and repeat step 6.
 If line voltage is present, go to step 3.  If +5VDC returns, one of the thermistors
has shorted. To diagnose thermistors,
 If line voltage is not present, check for
see TEST #4a, page 16.
tripped circuit breaker or blown household
fuse. If CB (circuit breaker) is not tripped,  If +5VDC is not present, go to step 8.
have customer check with qualified 8. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
electrician. Reconnect P14 to the CCU and unplug P2 from
3. Remove top panel to access the machine the CCU. Plug in dryer or reconnect power and
electronics. repeat step 6. Perform voltage check inside
header P2 on CCU, between pins 1 & 3—DO
4. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
NOT SHORT PINS TOGETHER.
P2 – WIDE TO UI (+5 VDC) P5 – +12VDC P9 – MOTOR/L1
P2-1 BLK +5VDC P5-1 P9-2 BLK L1
P2-2 BLU DATA P5-2 P9-1 LT BLU MOTOR
P5-3 12V GND
P2-3 YEL 5V GND
P5-4 P13 – MOISTURE SENSOR
P5-5
P13-2 RED MOISTURE SENSOR
P8 – MYST VALVE/DOOR SWITCH P5-6
P13-1 BLK MOISTURE SENSOR
P8-5 OPEN P5-7
P5-8 +12VDC P14 – THERMISTORS
P8-4 TAN DOOR SWITCH
P8-3 WHT NEUTRAL P14-3 RED OUTLET THERMISTOR P14-6 RED OUTLET THERMISTOR
P8-2 G/Y CHASSIS GND P14-2 RED INLET THERMISTOR P14-5 RED MODEL RTN (GAS MODEL)
P8-1 RED MYST VALVE P14-1 RED INLET THERMISTOR P14-4 RED MODEL (GAS MODEL)
Heater Relay #1
(Gas & Elect.) P9 Motor Relay P13
L1 – BLK
Heater (E) – VLT
K2
Heater (G) – RED
P5
K1
Heater Relay #2
(Elect. Only) P2
K3
• = pin-1
L1 – BLK
Heater – VLT
P8 P14
Figure 11 - CCU Connectors & Pinouts
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 9
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 10 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
 If +5VDC is still missing, replace the CCU.  When this is found, go to step 5.
 If +5VDC returns, check harnesses and  If neither of the plug terminals have
connections between the CCU and user continuity with the left-most contact of the
interface (UI). If acceptable, replace the UI. terminal block, replace the power cord and
retest dryer.
9. CCU +12VDC – with voltmeter set to DC,
connect black probe to CCU P5-3 (ground) Terminal Block
Power Cord
and red probe to P5-8 (+12VDC). Plug L1
N
 If +12VDC is present, go to step 10.
 If +12VDC is not present, replace the CCU.
NOTE: 12V is used to actuate the 120VAC
relays, triacs, and switches.
10. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
COM
11. Reassemble all parts and panels.
12. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test” Figure 13a - Plug-to-terminal connections
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair. for electric dryer.
5. Access the machine electronics without
TEST #2: Supply Connections
disconnecting any wiring to the CCU (See
This test assumes that proper voltage is Dryer Disassembly Instructions, page 23).
present at the outlet, and for U.S. installations,
6. With an ohmmeter, check for continuity
a visual inspection indicates that the power
between the L1 terminal of the plug (found
cord is securely fastened to the terminal block
in step 4) and P9-2 (black wire) on the CCU.
(electric dryer) or wire harness connection
(gas dryer).  If there is continuity, go to step 7.
 If there is no continuity, check that wires to
ELECTRIC DRYER (U.S. Installations):
the terminal block are mechanically secure.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
If so, replace the main wire harness in the
2. Remove the cover plate from the top right dryer and retest.
corner of the back of the dryer. See figure 12.
7. With an ohmmeter, check for continuity
between the neutral (N) terminal of the plug
and P8-3 (white wire) on the CCU.
 If there is continuity, go to step 8.
Remove Screw  If there is no continuity, and the mechanical
connections of the wire are secure, replace
the main wire harness in the dryer and
Cover Plate
retest.
8. Visually check that ALL connectors are
fully inserted into the CCU.
Figure 12 - Remove the cover plate.
9. Reassemble all parts and panels.
3. With an ohmmeter, check for continuity
10. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
between the neutral (N) terminal of the plug
and the center contact on the terminal block. 11. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
See figure 13a. through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
 If there is no continuity, replace the power
ELECTRIC DRYER (Canadian Installations):
cord and test the dryer.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
 If there is continuity, go to step 4.
2. Remove the cover plate from the top right
4. In a similar way, check which terminal of corner of the back of the dryer. See figure 12.
the plug is connected to the left-most contact
on the terminal block and make a note of
it. This will be L1 (black wire) in the wiring
diagram. See figure 13a.
PAGE 10 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 11 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
3. Access the machine electronics
without disconnecting any wiring (see Dryer
Disassembly Instructions, page 23).
4. With an ohmmeter, check the continuity
from L1 and N plug terminals of the power
cord to the terminals for L1 and N on the
CCU. See figure 13b.
P9
1
5
1
 If continuity exists for both connections,
go to step 6.
 If an open circuit is found, check the integrity
of the connections of the power cord to the
harness in the dryer; harness to the CCU;
and the integrity of the power cord itself.
5. If it is necessary to replace the power
cord, remove the retaining clip that secures
the cord to the back panel. Disconnect the
cord from the main harness and the ground
wire from the rear panel, then pull out the
power cord.
6. Visually check that ALL connectors are
fully inserted into the CCU.
7. Reassemble all parts and panels.
8. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
9. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
GAS DRYER (U.S. and Canadian Installations):
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
2. Remove the cover plate from the top right
corner of the back of the dryer. See figure 12.
3. Check that the power cord is firmly
connected to the dryer’s wire harness.
See figure 14.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 11
Date
Code YDDD-xx
MADE
IN COO
XPXX/XN-XXX
XXXXXX
Rev
X
Wire
Harness
Power Cord Power
CCU
Plug Cord
N Neu L1
L1
Figure 14 - Power cord-to-wire harness
connection for gas dryer.
4. Access the machine electronics without
disconnecting any wiring (See Dryer
N Disassembly Instructions, page 23).
Neu
5. With an ohmmeter, check for continuity
COM P8 between the neutral (N) terminal of the plug and
P8-3 (white wire) on the CCU. The left-hand
Figure 13b - Plug-to-terminal connections
side of figure 15 shows the position of the
for electric dryer.
neutral terminal (N) on the power cord plug.
Also see figure 11, page 9.
 If there is continuity, go to step 6.
 If there is no continuity, disconnect the
white wire of the main harness from the
power cord at the location illustrated in
figure 14. Test the continuity of the power
cord neutral wire as illustrated in figure 15.
If an open circuit is found, replace the
power cord. Otherwise, go to step 6.
N
Neu L1
COM
L1
G N
Masse Neu
Power Cord
G
Plug Masse
Figure 15 - Power cord terminals, gas dryer.
6. In a similar way, with an ohmmeter, check
for continuity between the L1 terminal of the
plug and P9-2 (black wire) on the CCU.
 If there is continuity, go to step 8.
 If there is no continuity, check the continuity
of the power cord in a similar way to that
illustrated in figure 15, but for power cord’s
L1 wire.
 If an open circuit is found, replace the power
cord. Otherwise, replace the main harness.
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 12 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
7. If the power cord passes the continuity  If resistance across P8-4 and P9-1 is in
check, replace the main harness. the range of 1 to 6 Ω, the motor circuit is
8. Visually check that ALL connectors acceptable. Replace the CCU.
are fully inserted into their circuit boards.  Otherwise, continue to step 6.
9. Reassemble all parts and panels. 6. Check the wiring and components in the path
10. Plug in dryer or reconnect power. between these measurement points by referring
to the appropriate wiring diagram (gas or electric)
11. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair. on pages 25 or 26. NOTE: To access motor
system components, refer to Dryer Disassembly
TEST #3: Motor Circuit Instructions, page 23.
3 Quick Check: Motor activation and related ELECTRIC DRYER ONLY: Check the thermal fuse.
attributes are provided in “Service Diagnostics See TEST #4b: Thermal Fuse, page 17.
➔ Component Activation ➔ Motor”.
ALL DRYERS: Continue with step 7 below to test
This test will check the wiring to the motor the remaining components in the motor circuit.
and the motor itself. The following items are
7. Check the drive motor and belt switch.
part of this motor system:
Slowly remove the drum belt from the spring-
Electric Gas loaded belt switch pulley, gently letting the belt
Part of Motor System
Dryer Dryer switch pulley down. See figure 16.
Drum belt (cid:31) (cid:31)
Door switch (cid:31) (cid:31) Belt Switch Pulley
Harness/connection (cid:31) (cid:31)
Thermal fuse (cid:31) no
Drive motor (cid:31) (cid:31)
Belt switch (cid:31) (cid:31)
Centrifugal switch (cid:31) (cid:31)
Machine control electronics (cid:31) (cid:31)
NOTE: Refer to strip circuit on page 22
Drum
to diagnose drive motor.
Belt
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
2. Remove top panel to access the machine Figure 16 - Slowly remove drum belt.
electronics.
8. Remove the white connector from the drive
3. Check for loose, worn, or damaged drum motor switch. See figure 17.
belt—repair as necessary.
4. Door Switch problems can be uncovered
by following procedure under TEST #7: Door
Switch, page 20; however, if this was not
done, the following can be performed without
applying power to the dryer. Connect an
ohmmeter across CCU P8-3 (neutral, white
wire) and P8-4 (door, tan wire).
 With the door properly closed, the ohmmeter
should indicate a closed circuit (0–2 Ω).
 If not, check harnesses and connections
between CCU and door switch. If good,
replace the door switch assembly.
5. Motor Circuit Check - Access the CCU and
measure the resistance across P8-4 and P9-1.
PAGE 12 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
1
5
3
4
6
2
Drive Motor
Switch
White
Connector
Figure 17 - Remove white connector.
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 13 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
9. Remove the bare copper wire terminal from 11. Check the belt switch by measuring
pin 5 of black drive motor switch. See figure 18. resistance between the two light blue wires,
as shown in figure 19, while pushing up the
Main Winding:
belt switch pulley.
Lt. Blue Wire in Back
and Bare Copper Wire
Start
Winding:
Lt. Blue
Lt. Blue Wire
Wires 1
in Back and 1
5
Bare Copper 5
Wire 3
3 4
4 6
6 2
2
Belt Switch Pulley Belt Switch
Figure 18 - Main and start winding measure points.
Figure 19 - Checking the belt switch.
10. Using figure 18 and the strip circuit on
 If the resistance reading goes from open
page 22, check for the resistance values of
to a few ohms as pulley arm closes the
the motor’s Main and Start winding coils as
switch, belt switch is good. If not, replace
shown in the following table.
the belt switch.
NOTE: Main and Start winding coils must be
 If belt switch is good and there is still an
checked at the motor.
open circuit, check and repair the main
Resistance Contact Points wiring harness.
Winding
in ohms of Measurement
12. Reassemble all parts and panels.
Lt. blue wire in back at pin 4
MAIN 3.3–3.6 and bare copper wire terminal 13. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
removed from pin 5 of black
drive motor switch 14. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
Lt. blue wire in back at pin 4
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
and bare copper wire terminal
START 2.7–3.0
on pin 3 of black drive
motor switch TEST #4: Heat System
 If the resistance at the motor is correct,
3 Quick Check: Heater activation and
there is an open circuit between the motor
related component attributes are provided
and CCU. Go to step 11 to check for belt
in “Service Diagnostics ➔ Component
switch problem.
Activation ➔ Heater 1, Heater 2, and
 If the Start winding resistance is much Heater 1+2” for electric, or “Heat On”
greater than 3 ohms, replace the motor. for gas.
This test is performed when either of the
following situations occurs:
3 Dryer does not heat
3 Heat will not shut off
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 13
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 14 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
This test checks the components making up Inlet Thermistor/High Limit Heater
the heating circuit. The following items are Thermostat Assembly Element
part of this system:
Thermal
Cut-Off
Electric Gas
Part of Heating System
Dryer Dryer
Harness/connection (cid:31) (cid:31)
Heater relay (cid:31) (cid:31)
Thermal cut-off (cid:31) (cid:31)
Thermal fuse no (cid:31)
High limit thermostat (cid:31) (cid:31)
Heat element assembly (cid:31) no
Gas valve assembly no (cid:31)
Centrifugal switch (cid:31) (cid:31)
Outlet thermistor (cid:31) (cid:31)
Inlet thermistor (cid:31) (cid:31)
Machine control electronics (cid:31) (cid:31)
Outlet
Console electronics and housing (cid:31) (cid:31) Thermal Fuse
assembly Thermistor
Gas supply no (cid:31)
Electric Dryer
NOTE: On the gas dryer, the inlet thermistor
Figure 20a - Thermal components,
is located below the CCU bracket at the drum
electric dryer, viewed from front.
inlet vent. Refer to strip circuit on page 22 to
diagnose heater system.
Thermal
Dryer does not heat: High Limit Thermostat Cut-Off
Locate the components using figures 20a and
20b. To access heater system components, see
Dryer Disassembly Instructions, page 23. Flame
Sensor
ELECTRIC DRYER ONLY:
3 Quick Check: Perform the “CCU Line
Voltage 1” check under Component
Activation. If L1 is present, the thermal
cutoff is functional.
3 Quick Check: Perform the “CCU Line
Voltage 2” check under Component
Activation. If L2 is present, the centrifugal
switch, high limit thermostat, and the side
of the heater connected to heater relay 1
are functional.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
Outlet
Thermal Fuse
2. Remove top panel to access the machine
Thermistor
electronics.
Gas Dryer
3. Check Heaters—on the CCU, use an
Figure 20b - Thermal components,
ohmmeter to measure the resistance between
gas dryer, viewed from front.
the violet wire terminal on heater relay #1
and the violet wire terminal on heater relay #2.
 If the resistance is ≤ 50 Ω, go to step 5.
 If an open circuit is detected, go to step 4.
PAGE 14 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 15 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
4. Visually check the wire connections between 3. Perform TEST #4b: Thermal Fuse on page
each relay and their respective heaters. If the 17. If the thermal fuse is OK, go to step 4.
connections look good, check for continuity
4. Perform TEST #4c: Thermal Cut-Off on
across each heater (violet wire to center red
page 17. If the thermal cut-off is OK, go to
wire). Refer to strip circuit on page 22.
step 5.
 Replace the heater if it is electrically open.
5. Locate the high limit thermostat (see
5. Check Thermal Cut-off—on the CCU, use figures 20a & 20b, page 14). Measure the
an ohmmeter to measure continuity between continuity through it by connecting the meter
P9-2 (L1) and the black wire terminal on heater probes to the red and black wire terminals.
relay #1. Then, measure continuity between P9-2
 If there is an open circuit, replace both the
(L1) and the black terminal on heater relay #2.
high limit thermostat and the thermal cut-off.
 If there is continuity, go to step 7.
 Otherwise, go to step 6.
 If an open circuit is detected, go to step 6.
6. Perform TEST #4d: Gas Valve on page
6. Visually check the wire connections 17. If the gas valve is OK, go to step 7.
between each relay (black wire) and the
7. If the preceding steps did not correct
thermal cut-off. If the connections look good,
the problem, suspect the centrifugal switch
check for continuity across the thermal cut-off.
before replacing the CCU.
 Replace the thermal cut-off if it is
8. Reassemble all parts and panels.
electrically open.
9. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
7. Check High Limit Thermostat—visually
10. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
check the wire connections from the heaters
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
and centrifugal switch to the high limit
thermostat. If the connections look good, check Heat will not shut off:
for continuity across the high limit thermostat. ALL DRYERS:
 Replace the high limit thermostat if it is 1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
electrically open.
2. Remove top panel to access the machine
8. If no open circuit is detected, remove P14 electronics.
from the CCU and measure the outlet thermistor
3. Remove connector P14 from the CCU and
resistance between P14-3 and P14-6 at the
measure the resistance between P14-3 and
connector.
P14-6 at the connector.
 If 5–15 k ohms are measured, go to step 9.
 If 5–15 k ohms are measured, the outlet
 If the resistance is less than 1 k ohm, thermistor is OK.
replace the outlet thermistor.
 If the resistance is less than 1 k, replace
9. If the preceding steps did not correct the the thermistor; if open, repair as necessary.
problem and L1 and L2 were both detected,
4. Check heater coil(s) for a short to ground
replace the CCU. If L2 was not detected,
(usually inside the heater box). Repair or
suspect the centrifugal switch before
replace if necessary.
replacing the CCU.
5. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
10. Reassemble all parts and panels.
6. Run an “AIR” only timed dry cycle (no
11. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
heat). Check heater relay output(s) on CCU.
12. Perform the “Quick DIagnostic Test” With a voltmeter set to AC, measure the
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair. voltage across terminals 1 & 2 for heater
relay #1. If equipped, repeat procedure
GAS DRYER ONLY:
with heater relay #2.
1. Verify that the gas supply to the dryer
 If voltage is present (~240VAC for electric,
is turned on.
~120VAC for gas), the relay is open and
2. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
working normally.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 15
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 16 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
 If little or no voltage is present, the relay 5. If the preceding steps did not correct the
is closed and heater is activated. Replace problem, replace the CCU.
the CCU.
Temperature Levels Incorrect – If no error code
7. Unplug dryer or disconnect power. is displayed and the connections to the thermistor
are good, check the exhaust temperature value
8. Reassemble all parts and panels.
at any or all of the temperature levels in question,
9. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
using the Timed Dry cycle. IMPORTANT: Be
10. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test” sure EcoBoost (if available) is turned OFF before
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair. testing.
1. Remove load from dryer and disconnect
TEST #4a: Thermistors
external vent.
NOTE: Refer to strip circuit on page 22 to
2. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
diagnose outlet and inlet temperature thermistors.
3. Run a TIMED DRY cycle of at least 2
Outlet (Exhaust) Thermistor
minutes in duration. Select High, Medium
The CCU monitors the exhaust temperature High, Medium, Low, or Extra Low. Turn off
using the outlet thermistor, and cycles the EcoBoost.
heater relay on and off to maintain the desired
4. Using a calibrated temperature probe,
temperature. NOTE: Begin with an empty dryer
take a temperature measurement in the
and a clean lint screen.
center of the exhaust outlet. The correct
3 Quick Check: Exhaust thermistor readings
exhaust temperatures are as follows:
in °F, °C, and resistance are provided
in “Service Diagnostics ➔ Component EXHAUST TEMPERATURES
Activation ➔ Exhaust Thermistor.”
TEMPERATURE HEAT TURNS OFF* HEAT TURNS ON
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power. SETTING °F (°C) °F (°C)
High 155° ± 5° (68° ± 3°)
2. Remove top panel to access the machine Medium High 150° ± 5° (65° ± 3°) 10–15° (6–8°)
electronics. below the
Medium 140° ± 5° (60° ± 3°)
heat turn off
3. Remove connector P14 from the CCU Low 125° ± 5° (52° ± 3°) temperature
and measure the resistance between P14-3 Extra Low 105° ± 5° (41° ± 3°)
 If the temperature is not reached within
and P14-6 at the connector. The following
~7 minutes, check voltage level and vent
table gives temperatures and their associated
blockage, and then retest.
resistance values.
 If the temperature probe does not agree
NOTE: All thermistor resistance measurements
with temperature setting, replace the outlet
must be made while dryer is unplugged and
thermistor.
connector removed from CCU.
 If the temperature probe confirms the
OUTLET THERMISTOR RESISTANCE temperature setting, retest at a different
RES. RES. temperature setting.
TEMP. TEMP.
RANGE RANGE
°F (°C) k ohms °F (°C) k ohms 5. If the preceding steps did not correct the
50° (10°) 19.0–22.0 80° (27°) 8.5–10.5 problem, replace the CCU.
60° (16°) 14.8–16.8 90° (32°) 6.8–8.8
Inlet Thermistor
70° (21°) 11.5–13.5 100° (38°) 5.0–7.0
 If the resistance is OK, the outlet thermistor The CCU monitors the inlet temperature using
is good. Proceed to step 4. the inlet thermistor. The inlet thermistor (along
with the outlet thermistor) is used to detect
 If the thermistor resistance does not agree
air flow, and assists in calculating load size.
with the table, replace the outlet thermistor.
NOTE: On the electric dryer, the inlet thermistor
4. Check P14-3 and P14-6 to dryer cabinet
is part of the high thermostat assembly (see
ground. If either pin indicates continuity
figures 20a & 20b). On the gas dryer, the inlet
to ground (short), replace wiring harness;
thermistor is located below the CCU bracket
otherwise, proceed to step 5.
at the drum inlet duct (see figure 28, page 27).
PAGE 16 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 17 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
3 Quick Check: Inlet thermistor readings in °F, TEST #4b: Thermal Fuse
°C, and resistance are provided in “Service
ELECTRIC DRYER: The thermal fuse is wired
Diagnostics ➔ Component Activation ➔
in series with the dryer drive motor.
Inlet Thermistor.”
GAS DRYER: The thermal fuse is wired
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
in series with the dryer gas valve.
2. Remove top panel to access the machine
ALL DRYERS:
electronics.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
3. Remove connector P14 from the CCU and
measure the resistance between P14-1 and 2. Access the thermal fuse by removing
P14-2 at the connector. The following tables the front panel. See Dryer Disassembly
(electric & gas) give temperatures and their Instructions, page 23.
associated resistance values. 3. Using an ohmmeter, check the continuity
NOTE: All thermistor resistance measurements across the thermal fuse.
must be made while dryer is unplugged and  If the ohmmeter indicates an open circuit,
connector removed from CCU. replace the thermal fuse.
 If the resistance is OK, the inlet thermistor
TEST #4c: Thermal Cut-Off
is good. Proceed to step 4.
 If the thermistor resistance does not agree If the dryer does not produce heat, check the
with the table, replace the inlet thermistor. status of the thermal cut-off.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
ELECT - INLET THERMISTOR RESISTANCE
2. Access the thermal cut-off by removing
RES. RES.
TEMP. TEMP. the front panel. See Dryer Disassembly
RANGE RANGE
°F (°C) °F (°C)
k ohms k ohms Instructions, page 23.
68° (20°) 61.2–63.7 131° (55°) 14.5–15.3
3. Using an ohmmeter, check the continuity
77° (25°) 49.0–51.0 140° (60°) 12.1–12.8
across the thermal cut-off. See figures 20a
86° (30°) 39.5–41.1 149° (65°) 10.2–10.7
and 20b, page 14, for location.
95° (35°) 32.0–33.3 158° (70°) 8.5–9.0
104° (40°) 26.1–27.2 167° (75°) 7.2–7.6 4. If the ohmmeter indicates an open circuit,
113° (45°) 21.4–22.3 176° (80°) 6.1–6.5 perform the following:
122° (50°) 17.6–18.5
ALL DRYERS: Replace both the thermal
cut-off and high limit thermostat. In addition,
GAS - INLET THERMISTOR RESISTANCE
check for blocked or improper exhaust
RES. RES.
TEMP. RANGE TEMP. RANGE system, and, on electric dryers, for heat
°F (°C) °F (°C)
k ohms k ohms element malfunction.
68° (20°) 57.5–67.6 131° (55°) 14.1–15.6
77° (25°) 46.1–53.8 140° (60°) 11.8–12.9 TEST #4d: Gas Valve (Gas Dryer)
86° (30°) 37.4–43.1 149° (65°) 9.9–10.8
3 Quick Check: Heater activation and related
95° (35°) 30.4–34.7 158° (70°) 8.4–9.0
104° (40°) 24.9–28.2 167° (75°) 7.1–7.6 component attributes are provided in
113° (45°) 20.5–23.0 176° (80°) 6.0–6.4 “Service Diagnostics ➔ Component
122° (50°) 16.9–18.9 Activation ➔ Heat On.”
4. Check P14-1 and P14-2 to dryer cabinet 1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
ground. If either pin indicates continuity
2. Access the gas valve by removing
to ground (short), replace wiring harness;
the back panel. See Dryer Disassembly
otherwise, proceed to step 5.
Instructions, page 23.
5. If the preceding steps did not correct the
3. Use an ohmmeter to determine if a gas valve
problem, replace the CCU.
coil has malfunctioned. Remove harness plugs.
Measure resistance across the terminals (see
figure 21, page 18). Readings should match those
shown in the following chart; if not, replace coils.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 17
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 18 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
TEST #5: Moisture Sensor
GAS VALVE RESISTANCE
Resistance This test is performed when an automatic cycle
Terminals
in ohms stops too soon, or runs much longer than expected.
1 to 2 1400 ± 70
1 to 3 570 ± 28.5 NOTE: Dryer will shut down automatically
4 to 5 1300 ± 65 after 2½ hours.
3 Quick Check: Moisture Sensor status
(open/closed) is provided in “Service
Diagnostics ➔ Component Activation ➔
Moisture Sensor.”
Pin 1 – Black The following items are part of this system:
Pin 2 – Blue
Pin 3 – White
Pin 4 – Blue Electric Gas
Pin 5 – White Part of Moisture System
Dryer Dryer
Figure 21 - Measuring gas valve resistance. Harness/connection (cid:31) (cid:31)
Metal sensor strips (cid:31) (cid:31)
4. Disconnect the ignitor plug from the
burner. Using an ohmmeter, measure Machine control electronics (cid:31) (cid:31)
the resistance across the ignitor’s 2-pin NOTE: Refer to strip circuit on page 22
connector. Resistance should be 50-500 Ω. to diagnose moisture sensor.
 If resistance readings are outside the range
1. Activate Service Diagnostics and then
or open, replace the ignitor. select the Component Activation ➔ Moisture
 If resistance readings are within range, reconnect Sensor. See procedures on page 5.
the ignitor plug and continue to step 5.
2. Open the door. Using a wet cloth or one
5. Disconnect the wires going to the flame finger, jointly touch both sensor strips.
sensor terminals. Using an ohmmeter, measure
 If the sensor status changes from open to
across the two sensor terminals for continuity.
closed, the sensor passed the test. Go to
 If there is continuity, reconnect the sensor
step 9.
wires and continue to step 6.
 If the sensor status remains open, or was
 If the reading is open, the flame sensor
closed before touching both moisture
needs replacing.
strips, continue with step 3.
6. Reassemble back panel before
NOTE: Overdrying may be caused by a short
reconnecting power.
circuit in the sensor system.
7. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
3. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
8. Run a high-temp TIMED DRY cycle
4. Remove top panel to access the machine
of at least 2 minutes in duration.
electronics.
9. Watch the ignitor for a couple of minutes
through the “peek window” in the side. If the 5. Access the moisture sensor wires by
ignitor stays red hot and the gas does not come removing the console and front panel (see
out and ignite, the flame sensor needs replacing. page 23). Disconnect the 3-wire moisture
sensor connector located below the door
NOTE: If ignitor does not come on, line voltage
opening between the front panel and bulkhead.
may not be present at the gas burner. The motor
centrifugal switch may be suspect. 6. Access the CCU and remove connector
IMPORTANT: To avoid damage to the gas burner P13 from the circuit board. Check the wire
wire harness, ensure the harness is routed harness for continuity between P13 and the
exactly as it was prior to service. moisture sensor connector.
10. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.  If there is continuity, go to step 7.
11. Reassemble all parts and panels.  If there is no continuity, or if a short is
12. Plug in dryer or reconnect power. detected, replace the main harness.
13. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
PAGE 18 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 19 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
7. Measure the resistance The following screen will confirm your selection.
across the outermost The selection will be stored on the CCU and will
contacts of the connector be retained—even after a power loss.
that includes the two MOVs.
NOTE: If dryness setting is not selected within
 If a small resistance is measured, clean the 6 seconds, it will time out and exit to the Main
two metal moisture strips inside the drum. Screen.
If a small resistance is measured after
TEST #6: Buttons and Indicators
cleaning, replace sensor harness.
 If a small resistance is not measured, This test is performed when any of the
go to step 8. following situations occurs during the “Service
Diagnostics ➔ Component Activation ➔ UI
8. Measure the resistance
Component Test.” (See page 5.)
across each of the
outermost contacts and 3 None of the indicators or display turn on
the center terminal (ground 3 Some buttons do not light
connection).
3 No beep sound is heard
 If a resistance less than infinity is
NOTE: The User Interface, which includes the
measured, replace the sensor harness.
Console, Modifier, and Center PCBs, must be
9. If the moisture sensor diagnostic test diagnosed and replaced as a single component.
passes, check the outlet thermistor: TEST #4a,
None of the indicators or display turn on:
page 16.
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
 If the problem persists after replacing the
2. Remove top panel to access the machine
moisture sensor and thermistor, consider
electronics.
adjusting the dryness level (see TEST #5a:
Adjusting Customer-Focused Dryness Level). 3. Visually check that ALL connectors
are fully inserted into the CCU.
10. If the preceding steps did not correct the
problem, replace the CCU. 4. Visually check that ALL connectors
are fully inserted into the UI.
a. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
5. Visually check that the UI and housing
b. Replace the CCU.
assembly is properly inserted into the front
c. Reassemble all parts and panels.
console.
d. Perform the “Quick Diagnostic Test”
6. If all visual checks pass, perform
through Service Diagnostics to verify repair.
TEST #1: CCU Power Check, page 9,
TEST #5a: Adjusting Customer- to verify supply voltages.
Focused Dryness Level  If supply voltages are present, replace
the user interface and housing assembly.
NOTE: If the customer complains about the
clothes being damp and the moisture sensor  If supply voltages are not present,
passes TEST #5: Moisture Sensor, step 3, the replace the CCU.
total dry time can be lengthened by changing 7. Reassemble all parts and panels.
the factory preset dryness setting.
8. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
1. Turn the cycle selector knob to an
9. Perform the “UI Component Test”
automatic cycle.
to verify repair.
2. From the Automatic Cycle Main Screen,
Some buttons do not light:
press and hold the Dryness Level button
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
(~3 sec.) until the Customer-Focused
Dryness Level screen appears. 2. Remove top panel to access the machine
electronics.
3. Select the desired dryness setting: “Factory
Preset” (standard auto cycle), “15% More”,
“30% More”, “15% Less”, or “30% Less”.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 19
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 20 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
3. Visually check that the UI and housing 5. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
assembly is properly inserted into the front
6. Perform the “Quick Check” above
console.
to verify repair.
4. If visual check passes, replace the UI
and housing assembly. TEST #8: Drum Light
5. Reassemble all parts and panels. 3 Quick Check: Drum Light status (on/off)
6. Plug in dryer or reconnect power. is provided in “Service Diagnostics ➔
Component Activation ➔ Drum Light.”
7. Perform the “UI Component Test”
to verify repair. Functionality is verified when the drum light
turns on and off. If the preceding condition
No beep sound is heard:
is not met:
1. Check volume levels under System
Settings ➔ End of Cycle and Button Sound. 1. Press and hold the EcoBoost/Drum Light
Increase volume if needed. button on the console until the LCD screen
acknowledges the drum light is on.
2. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
 If the LCD does not confirm the button
3. Remove top panel to access the machine
press, replace the user interface (UI).
electronics.
 If the LCD confirms the button press,
4. Visually check that ALL connectors
go to step 2.
are fully inserted into the CCU.
5. Visually check that ALL connectors 2. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
are fully inserted into the UI. 3. Remove the top panel to access CCU
6. If all visual checks pass, replace the and UI.
UI and housing assembly.
4. Verify the drum LED connector P13
7. Reassemble all parts and panels. is securely connected to the UI.
8. Plug in dryer or reconnect power. 5. Check harness and inline connections
9. Perform the “UI Component Test” between the drum LED and UI.
to verify repair.  If the harness and connections are good,
go to step 6.
TEST #7: Door Switch
 If not, repair or replace as needed.
3 Quick Check: Door Switch status (open/
6. Unplug the drum LED connector P13
closed) is provided in “Service Diagnostics
from the UI.
➔ Component Activation ➔ Door Status.”
7. Plug in dryer or reconnect power.
Functionality is verified when the door status
toggles between Open to Closed. If the 8. Press and hold the EcoBoost/Drum Light
preceding condition is not met: button on the console to activate the LED
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power. circuit.
2. Remove top panel to access the machine 9. With a multimeter set to milliamps,
electronics. measure the current across UI connector
P13, pins 1 and 3. If the drum LED driver
3. Check that the wires between the door
is working properly, there should be a
switch and CCU are connected. (Refer to
wiring diagrams on pages 25 and 26.) measurement of 150–370 mA.
 If the connections are good, replace the  If the current is present, replace the
wire and door switch assembly and retest. drum LED.
 If wire and door switch assembly have  If the current is not present, replace the UI.
been replaced and dryer still does not start,
10. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
replace the CCU.
11. Reassemble all parts and panels.
4. Reassemble all parts and panels.
PAGE 20 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 21 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
TEST #9: Myst Valve 6. Inside the drum, unscrew and replace the
myst nozzle using a 7/16" wrench or socket.
3 Quick Check: Myst Valve status (on/off)
Retest myst valve.
is provided in “Service Diagnostics ➔
Component Activation ➔ Myst Valve.”  If water does not dispense, go to step 7.
Functionality is verified when the valve turns on 7. Access the myst valve by removing back
and off and water is being sprayed into the drum panel; see page 23.
(see figure 22).
 Check that the hose and wires are
NOTE: Refer to strip circuit on page 22 to connected to the myst valve assembly
diagnose myst valve. (see figure 22).
 Check that the myst valve assembly hose
Water Nozzle
is connected to the nozzle.
8. If everything is hooked up and the water
still does not dispense:
 Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
 Replace the valve assembly and retest.
9. If the preceding steps did not correct
the problem, replace the CCU.
Water Valve Wires
Water Valve Assembly
Figure 22 - Water System Components.
If no water is sprayed in the drum:
1. Verify that water is hooked up and turned on.
2. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
3. Remove top panel to access the machine
electronics.
4. Verify that the red wire coming from the
water valve is connected to the CCU, P8-1.
Refer to wiring diagrams on pages 25 and 26.
5. Check Myst Valve & Harness—using an
ohmmeter, measure the resistance between
the CCU P8-1 (red wire) and P9-2 (black wire).
 If the resistance is 510–590 Ω, go to step
6; if not, replace the myst valve.
 If an open circuit is detected, go to step 7.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 21
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 22 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
STRIP CIRCUITS
MOTOR CIRCUIT
L1 DRIVE MOTOR CENTRIFUGAL N
CYCLE CONTROL UNIT 1/3 HP SWITCH
MAIN LBU
5M 2M
3.3-3.6 Ω
BK P9-2 P9-1 LBU LBU 4M BU N.O. W
MOTOK R1 RELAY (EL TE HC ET R. MO AN LLY) SWBE ITLT CH 2.7-3.0 Ω 3M 6M 1M SD WO ITO CR H
FUSE START See Heater Circuit
HEATER (ELECTRIC)
L1 CYCLE CONTROL UNIT L2
HEATER RELAY 1 CENTRIFUGAL SWITCH
N.O. K2 COM1 V HEATER 1 N.C. 5M 2M
BK BK 20 Ω R R MS oe te or R
T CH UE TR -OM FA FL N.O. K3 COM2 V HEA20 T EΩ R 2 TH HI EG RH M L OI SM TI AT T 3C Mircuit 6M 1M
HEATER RELAY 2
HEATER (GAS)
L1 R CENTRIFUGAL SWITCH N
CYCLE CONTROL UNIT R LBU
BK N.O. COM R N.C. BK T CH UE TR -OM FA FL R-W MO BV U 1V BK 2 1400 ± 70 Ω1I 5G 705 0 ±-5 20 80 . 5Ω Ω3IGR W W I VG AN LI VT EO R 1 CMS iroe cte uo ir t5M 2M BU W
HEATERK R2 ELAY 1 TH HI EG RH M L OI SM TI AT T TH FE UR SM EAL LBU F4 S11300 ± 65 Ω FS5 2W V FA LL AV ME E2 3M 6M 1M SD WO ITO CR H
SENSOR
HEATER GAS VALVE
THERMISTORS (INLET/OUTLET)
CYCLE CONTROL UNIT INLET TEMP THERMISTOR CYCLE CONTROL UNIT
R 50K Ω R
INLET THERMISTOR P14-2 P14-1 INLET THERMISTOR RTN
R 10K Ω R
OUTLET THERMISTOR P14-3 P14-6 OUTLET THERMISTOR RTN
OUTLET TEMP THERMISTOR
MOISTURE SENSOR
CYCLE CONTROL UNIT CYCLE CONTROL UNIT
MOISTURE SENSOR
MOISTURE SENSOR P13-1 BK Y-R BK R P13-2 MOISTURE SENSOR RTN
MOV MOV
G-Y G-Y
P8-2 CHASSIS GND
G-Y
CHASSIS GND
WATER VALVE CIRCUIT
L1 N
CYCLE CONTROL UNIT
WATER VALVE
BK R W
P8-1 P8-3
510-590 Ω K4
VALVE RELAY
Figure 23 - Strip Circuits.
Contacts Black-White Lt. Blue Green-Yellow
Function 1M 2M 3M 5M 6M
Red Red
Start
Black
Run White
Blue
=Contacts closed WWHhiItTeE Blue
Centrifugal Switch (Motor) Gas Valve, Gas Dryer Pluggable Drive Motor Switch
PAGE 22 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 23 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
DRYER DISASSEMBLY INSTRUCTIONS Remove Console, Front Panel,
Front Bulkhead, and Drum
Remove Top Panel
NOTE: Sections A, B, C, and D must be
1. Unplug dryer or disconnect power.
performed in order.
2. Remove the three rear screws securing
the top panel and extension bracket to the A: Remove Console (Figure 25)
back panel.
1. Perform “Remove Top Panel”.
3. Slide the top panel/extension bracket
2. Disconnect the drum light harness at
back to remove.
the inline connector as shown in figure 25.
4. Reverse procedure to reassemble.
3. Disconnect the CCU to UI harness at the
inline connection as shown in figure 25.
Remove Rear Panel (Figure 24)
4. Remove the two top screws (closest
1. Perform “Remove Top Panel”.
to the front) securing console to mounting
2. ELECTRIC: Remove the cover plate and
bracket.
disconnect the power cord from the terminal
5. Slide the console up and off the mounting
block and ground screw.
bracket while feeding the CCU to UI and drum
GAS: Remove the cover plate and disconnect
light harnesses through the opening in the
the AC power cord from the ground screw.
bracket. Remove console and harnesses
3. Remove the two screws securing the from dryer.
terminal block to rear panel.
CCU to UI Connector Door Switch Connector
4. Remove the 13 screws securing the rear
panel to the cabinet. Remove rear panel from
dryer.
NOTE: The spring clip has been replaced by a
lint duct collar that is secured to the rear panel.
Care must be taken when sliding the panel off Drum Light
the exhaust outlet because of the tight fit. Connector
5. Reverse procedure to reassemble.
Ground Screw Terminal Block
Console screw (right side shown)
Figure 25 - Remove console.
Lint Duct Collar Water Inlet
Figure 24 - Remove rear panel.
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 23
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 24 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
B: Remove Front Panel 12. Remove console mounting bracket by
removing six screws—four from the top and
(Refer to Figure 26, unless otherwise noted.)
two from the front (bold arrows).
6. Disconnect door switch connector
13. Remove lint duct cover by removing three
(See Figure 25, page 23).
screws—one screw and clamp assembly at
7. Remove front panel by removing nine
bottom of cover and two screws securing
screws—four from the bottom, three from the
cover to bulkhead.
top, and two below the dryer door opening.
14. Remove the four screws securing the
Console Mounting Bracket bulkhead to the cabinet. Remove bulkhead.
Drum Light Main Harness Clips
Bulkhead
Screws
Front Panel
Figure 26 - Remove front panel.
C: Remove Front Bulkhead
Lint Duct Moisture Sensor
(Refer to Figure 27, unless otherwise noted.) Cover Screws Connector
and Clamp
8. Remove lint screen.
Figure 27 - Remove front bulkhead.
9. Unclip main wire harness (2 places).
10. Disconnect drum light connector D: Remove Drum
(See Figure 25, page 23). 15. Remove drive belt from belt switch pulley.
11. Disconnect moisture sensor at plug below 16. Pull drum from cabinet.
door opening.
17. Reverse procedure to reassemble.
PAGE 24 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 25 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 25
MARGAID
GNIRIW
REYRD
CIRTCELE
LOOPLRIHW
ot
egamad
esuac
yam
egrahcsid
citatsortcelE
:TNATROPMI
.noitamrofni
DSE
rof
1
egap
eeS
.scinortcele
lortnoc
enihcam
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 26 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
PAGE 26 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
MARGAID
GNIRIW
REYRD
SAG
LOOPLRIHW
ot
egamad
esuac
yam
egrahcsid
citatsortcelE
:TNATROPMI
.noitamrofni
DSE
rof
1
egap
eeS
.scinortcele
lortnoc
enihcam
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 27 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
COMPONENT LOCATIONS
See Removing Top Panel, page 23, to access:
• User Interface (UI)
• Cycle Control Unit (CCU)
• Inlet Thermistor (Gas)
See Removing Rear Panel,
Drum Light
page 23, to access:
Assembly
• Water Nozzle
• Water Valve
• Thermal Cut-off
• Inlet Thermistor (Electric)
• High Limit Thermostat
• Heater Assembly
Door Switch
(Location may vary
between models)
See Removing Front Panel
and Bulkhead, page 23, to access:
• Motor Assembly & Belt Switch
• Thermal Fuse NOTE: Refer to Figure 20b, page 14,
• Outlet Thermistor for gas dryer component locations.
• Moisture Sensor Strips
Figure 28 - Component locations.
SPECIFICATIONS
DRYER SPECIFICATIONS
240 VAC (200-260) Elect. Dryer, 2-phase, “optimized”
Voltage: 208 VAC (176-229) Elect. Dryer, 3-phase, “less optimized”
120 VAC (100-130) Gas Dryer
(ELECT) 30 Amp Service
Amps:
(GAS) 15 Amp Service
Frequency: 58 to 62 Hz (60 Hz nominal)
Water Pressure: 20-120 PSI
Operating Temperature Range: 40 to 105°F (5 to 40°C)
Dryer Height: 39 in. (99.1 cm)
Dryer Width: 27 in. (68.6 cm)
Dryer Depth: 31 in. (78.7 cm)
DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY PAGE 27
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

===== PAGE 28 =====

FOR SERVICE TECHNICIAN’S USE ONLY
NOTES
PAGE 28 DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY
Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine